QUESTIONS:

1. What is C#?
2. Explain types of comment in C# with examples
3. What is the difference between public, static, and void?
4. What is an object?
5. Define Constructors
6. Describe the accessibility modifier “protected internal”.
7. How can we sort the elements of the Array alphabetically?
8. What is Console application?
9. What are Properties in C#?
10. What are fields in C#?


11. What is a correct syntax to output "Hello World" in C#?
12. Which data type is used to create a variable that should store text? Give example
13. How do you create a variable with the numeric value 5? Give example
14. How do you create a variable with the floating number 2.8? Give example
15. The value of a string variable can be surrounded by single quotes. True or False?
16. Which operator can be used to compare two values?
17. To declare an array in C#, you define the variable type with?
18. Array indexes start with?
19. How do you create a method in C#?
20. How do you call a method in C#?


21. What is the correct way to create an object called human1 of Human class?
22. In C#, it is possible to inherit fields and methods from one class to another. True or False?
23. Which access modifier makes the code only accessible within the same class?
24. Which keyword is used to return a value inside a method?
25. What are the two keywords in a property?
26. Which statement is used to stop a loop?



Anwer:
17. []
23. Private
26. break

Double:
double x = 2.8D;





C# WORD GUESS GAME
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Unscramble/guess only a word from each scrambled word. 
Example:
Scrambled word = elvo
Unscrambled word = love

2. User can guess only up to 3 times after which he fails that particular guess and the correct answer is displayed and then moves to the next scrambled word. No point given for failure.
If he passes the guess, give him a point then move to next scrambled word. 

3. At the end of the guess game, the total points earned by the user should be displayed with all the scrambled words alongside their respective unscrambled words. 

4. Your scrambled words should not be less than seven. 

5. Make your code simplified and understandable as much as possible, following the SOLID principle with particular emphasis on 'O - Open for expansion but closed for modification'. 

6. Each group should have their unique code base, that is, no copying from each other. 

7. Date of project presentation is 4th of July, 2022. Ensure you round up your project before then.
Every participant in each group will have a part to present therefore every group member must be involved in the project creation. 

BEST OF LUCK







C# LIBRARY APP
(LIBRARY BOOK BORROWING & FINE CALCULATION) 
INSTRUCTIONS:
Have two options to either borrow a book or return a book borrowed.

If the option of borrow a book is chosen, then the following should happen:
1. Have lists of books available for borrowing in the library. 
Note: Display the list of all books.

2. Once a book has been borrowed it should be taken out of the library and you cannot borrow that particular book anymore. 
Note: After each book is borrowed out, display the list of the remaining available books in the library 

3. Once the library is empty, you should not be able to borrow, it should display library empty.

If the option of return book is chosen, then the following should happen:
1. If the book is returned on or before 5 days, no fine will be charged.

2. If the book is returned after the expected return day (between 5 and 10 days), fine would be N50 per day defaulted. 
For example: If you return the book on the 15th day you will be charged a fine of N50 on the 5 days defaulted, that will be 5 multiply by N50.

3. If the book is not returned after 30 days, fine would amount to N100 per day defaulted.
For example: If you return the book after 30 days upwards, you will be charged a fine of N100 on all the days defaulted starting from day 11.

BEST OF LUCK






C# SIM CARD APP FOR UNIT TESTING 
1. Method to recharge 
You cannot recharge above 10k

2. Method to buy data
You cannot buy data more than the amount you have in your account 

3. Method to borrow airtime
If account balance is not empty you cannot borrow

4. Method to transfer airtime to friend
You cannot transfer above what you have in your account

5. Method to check if airtime balance is below 20naira

Create a unit test for all the methods and ensure they are all working. 

BEST OF LUCK





TEST QUESTION ON LINQ
1. What are the two types of filtering operators we have?
2. What are the two types of projection operators we have?
3a. Create a list with the combination of both string and int list items.
3b. Using the method syntax, write a linq statement that will get only items in the list that are string.
3c. Using the method syntax, write a link statement that will get only items in the list that are string whose length is greater than or equal to 5.
4. What does the sorting operators do? and what are the five types of sorting operators we have?
5. Create a list of unordered integers and order them in ascending and descending manner using the method syntax.
6. Jointly sort any data source by OrderBy and ThenBy operators using the method syntax
7. Using the method syntax, reverse the order of an array of 1 to 10.


TEST QUESTIONS ON WORKING WITH FILES
1. How do we write a path to a directory

2. How do we read all the subfolders in a root directory

3. How do we read all the sub-subfolders in a root directory

4. How do we read all the files in a top directory

5. How do we read all the files in a top directory and all sub folders

6. What method gets us only the file name without the path to the file?

7. How do we get the size of a file?

8. What is the method used to check if a directory exists in a path and what data type does it return?

9. What is the method used to create a directory?





ANSWERS:
1. string path = @"path here";

2. string[] dirs = Directory.GetDirectories(path);

3. string[] dirs = Directory.GetDirectories(path, "*", SearchOption.AllDirectories);

4. string[] files = Directory.GetFiles(path, "*.*", SearchOption.TopDirectoryOnly);

Same as:

string[] files = Directory.GetFiles(path);

5. string[] files = Directory.GetFiles(path, "*.*", SearchOption.AllDirectories);

6. Path.GetFileName(file);

7. var info = new FileInfo(file)
info.length

8. Directory.Exists(path);

9. Directory.CreateDirectory(path);





EXTRAS

10. How do we copy a file to another directory, with an overwrite set to false. Wrap your code in a try catch block to display a message when a file with same name already exists.







C# FILE MOVER APP PROJECT

Write a program to move all images in your Downloads folder to an Images subfolder within the Downloads folder.

Hint: To get the full path of your Downloads folder go to Local Disk, Users, Students, Downloads. Copy the path from the path tab above.

REQUIRED:

1. Upon running your app, Images subfolder should be automatically created if it does not exist.

2. If no image file exists in the Downloads folder, prompt the user with associated message.

3. If an image in the Downloads folder has same name with an image in the Images folder an exception error is thrown thereby causing the app to crash. Handle this exception with the appropriate block to prevent the app from crashing when such condition of similarity in name is present.

BEST OF LUCK!!




AIRLINE RESERVATION SYSTEM PROJECT
Create an app that does the following
1. Have an object list of Planes
2. Register a passengers
3. Add a flight
4. Add a passenger to a flight
5. View a flight detail and display list of all passengers on that flight

CLASSES TO HAVE:
- Plane (Name, Aircraft No., No of seats)
- Passenger (First Name, Surname, Passport No.)
- Flight (Flight No., Takeoff, Destination, Date of flight, List of passengers, Plane)

















